Stress at work
FIT AT WORK
Is your job making you ill?
These are six tips for feeling better
How to avoid you office job weighing on your health
No matter how much you enjoy doing your job, work can start to weigh heavily. Stress, excessive sitting, staring at a screen for a long time: many daily habits eat into your well-being without you picking up on it. With the help of The Guardian, we've gathered ten tips for keeping you healthier and fitter at work.

05-10-20, 11.28u - Stefan Grommen - Source: The Guardian
No, we won't tell you to stop working. Having a job is better for your health than not having one: work gives a person purpose and structure, creates human contact and wages allow you to pay for a healthier lifestyle. And yes, this article covers Western 'first world problems', because there are countries where working is still several times more uncomfortable.

Yet that Western job can make us sicker than we think. Diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular diseases, back problems and psychological complaints such as burnouts are disorders becoming increasingly common in the West. However, you can help prevent them with some relatively simple adjustments to your habits. The Guardian listed ten for you:

Get up every so often
In Flanders we spend an average of 9 hours seated on a chair or sofa. Sitting too much and for too long is deceptively unhealthy. Recent research shows that those who stay stationary for large parts of the day, have a highier risk of heart disease, colon cancer, diabetes, depression and premature death.

Walking around every 20 to 30 minutes makes a difference. If your job doesn't allow you to stand a lot, try doing some muscle exercise from time to time while sitting. For example, tighten your abdominal muscles, contract your buttocks and pelvic floor muscles, stretch and bend your legs.

Take that break outside
First, take the coffee or lunch break you are entitled to. Don't sit even when it's busy. Breaks benefit your work. Research shows that the most productive employees take a 17-minute break every 52 minutes (intensive work). That may be impossible in your job, but you can try to approximate

Secondly, if you do take a break, why not go outside even if it were to rain a little? Leave those funny YouTube videos or those private emails for what they are. Fresh air, some oxygen, also means a generous portion of fresh energy and keeps you alert. And suddenly you're on the move!

Take the stairs, ignore the elevator
Climbing stairs is a free workout during your working day. Make use of it.

Look around
68 percent of Generation Y (the generation born between 1982 and 2001) stare at a screen for nine hours or more every day, and so do one third of Generation X (born between 1961 and 1980). Small or unclear images force our eyes to focus. You also blink a lot less when constantly looking at a screen, which makes your eyes dry and tired.

Sounds familiar? Simple tip: stop looking at the screen at least every twenty minutes and try to focus on a spot in the distance for at least 20 seconds. This will improve your concentration.

Cut down on the caffeine
Coffee dehydrates and caffeine makes you sleep worse. We already informed you that neither of these is good for your health. You should therefore consider cutting back.

Nevertheless, the conclusions regarding the adverse effects of coffee are not all that conclusive. We've collected all potential advantages and disadvantages of black gold for you here.

Be positive and helpful
Well-being is a mental issue as much as it's a physical one. Try to approach difficult situations in a positive way. And be altruistic, honest and sincere, it will improve your self-worth. An interesting side effect is that it can also help you advance in your career.