FILMFESTIVALOOSTENDE.BE
Ready for the windiest movie event of all?
For 13 editions, The Ostend Film Festival has been the leading cultural event in September. The last couple of years, we've reached our maximum potential, both in content and seating capacity. In order to expand the festival, we are making the move to January.

28.08.2022
Competition information available
The international COOP competition is a brand new competition (first edition in 2021) and focuses exclusively on Flemish co-productions and Dutch co-productions. Inspired by the "think globally, act locally" ideology, the FFO programmers look for remarkable and exciting film productions that take international collaborations to a new level. We want to motivate Flemish and Dutch producers to look for alternative collaborations to make a project succeed.

A Belgian/Dutch jury of film programmers will decide on the 'Best Coproduction' (Money prize of 5k and marketing package). There are also recognitions for 'Best Screenplay' & 'Best Directing'.

All films screened during FFO are eligible for the EuroMillions Audience Award. Every festival visitor received a voting form that determines the winner.

Competition information available
20.08.2022
We're revamping the Ensor Awards
Over the years, The Ensors have grown into a separate organization that collaborates closely with V.O.F.T.P., The Union of Directors, The Gild of Screenwriters, The Belgian Society of Cinematographers (S.B.C.), montage.be, The Actors Gild

In 2010, The Ostend Film Festival initiated an annual award show that acknowledges remarkable film performances in the local AV-sector. The Flemish Film Awards became The Ensors, an annual gala at The Ostend Kursaal. A fitting closing event for the festival.

In order to offer The Ensors every opportunity for further development, FFO consulted with the Flemish Independent Film and Television Producers (V.O.F.T.P.), the Union of Directors, the Screenwriters Guild, the Belgian Society of Cinematographers (S.B.C.), Montage.be and the Actor's Guild, in coordination with the Flemish Audiovisual Fund. This resulted in the creation of a separate entity for The Ensors. You can read all about it on ensors.be!

We're revamping the Ensor Awards
18.08.2022
Cinema Storck now at our film festival
The Ostend Film Festival is invested in arthouse cinema. We keep up to date with al new films and monitor the international film festivals closely. Since 2018, we try to bring the best films from around the globe to Ostend throughout the year. For us, this is a dream come true! We named this initiative Cinema Storck, as a tribute to renowned Ostend filmmaker Henri Storck.

Cinema Storck will take place from October to June in Kinepolis Ostend. The complete program can be found (only during this period) on www.cinemastorck.be and in our monthly program flyer. Tickets can be bought online or at the box office of Kinepolis Ostend!

Competition information available
16.08.2022
First Cut Lab programme
First Cut Lab is a programme designed for long feature fiction films in editing phase. Launched in 2015 at When East Meets West, it has so far supported 39 projects through the program, from a range of different countries such as Lithuania, Poland, Slovenia, Ukraine and Russia.

Many of the projects have gone on to premiere in A-list festivals such as Berlinale, Cannes and Toronto. First Cut Lab is organised in international and national formats, with very similar approach. We are aiming to expand the scope of the workshop to include more countries in the coming years.

First Cut Lab programme